# Course Review

Software Engineering was a good class: it was strong in a lot of areas, but I felt it had some **equally visible flaws**. I will say before I get into my whole course review that Downing is the only instructor that I have had that understands how computer science should be taught. I have long had a problem with many of my CS courses because they strive to be extremely academic, and while we are certainly at an academic institution, CS benefits so uniquely from a practical instruction. So while I will mention some flaws I felt were present in the course, I commend Downing. Often we can be the most critical of people doing great things because we get a glimpse of perfection.

A typical class day starts with a Canvas based quiz over either topics from previous classes or weekly readings. The quizzes are a great way to keep people on their toes, and thinking about the course day-to-day, however sometimes they can feel contrived and as if they are made specifically to catch you. With this said Downing is far more than fair in giving leniency to the quiz grades (considering we are on quiz 40 and he only grades the top 30 or so). The lectures are more often than not very engaging, Downing has a real excitement about a lot of his material and it really helps to let you see the importance of what he is teaching ('This is a high point of the God damn class!'). The portions of the course in which we are coving Python were top notch, they were easy to understand, felt like they progressed off of one another, and actually made me want to go home and write toy code after class. The topics after Python, however (SQL and Refactoring specifically) were far dryer and the layout and progression often left me confused. I never had those 'I could use that to do X' moments like I did with Python that got me really excited about the course, and I think it had a lot to do with how he went through the material. The SQL lectures felt like a bunch of disjoint and abstract examples rather than good descriptions of things we could do with the tool. Having to juggle knowledge about the tables or the previous code base (refactoring) had me spending more time figuring out what went where and why rather than understanding the topic or imagining possibilities with a feature.